+++
comments = false
date = "2016-10-02T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["fa14"]
year = "2014"
semester = "Fall"
title = "Fall 2014"
description = ""
+++

{{% seminarSetup %}}

{{< seminarEntry date="September 9, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Jonathan Goldfarb" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Numerical Methods for Solving Optimal Control Problems for the Second Order Parabolic PDEs" />}}

{{< seminarEntry date="September 30, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Ryan White" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="An Operational Calculus Approach to Random Walks on Random Lattices" >}}
In this talk, we discuss a particular class of stochastic processes for modeling the accumulation of damage to networks or systems experiencing a sequence of attacks that incapacitate random numbers of nodes (e.g. components), each with a random weight (e.g. a cost). Each component has threshold(s) whose crossing indicate the system entering a critical state. An operational calculus strategy is used to derive probabilistic information about the process within random vicinities of passage times. Necessary ideas from (measure-theoretic) probability theory are introduced.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="October 7, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Joao Alberto de Faria" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Automorphism Groups of Rational Functions" >}}
'In this talk, we will discuss two algorithms to compute automorphism groups for single variable rational functions. These algorithms come directly from the paper "Computing Conjugating Sets and Automorphism Groups of Rational Functions", by Faber, Manes, and Viray. Throughout the talk, necessary ideas from algebra and dynamics will be introduced as needed. Afterwords, we will explain the connections between the current algorithms to my own work, which is making them work in higher dimensional cases.'
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{% seminarEntryEmpty date="October 14, 2014" reason="No talk (Holiday)" %}}

{{% seminarEntryEmpty date="November 11, 2014" reason="No talk (Holiday)" %}}

{{< seminarEntry date="November 18, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Rana Haber" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Discriminative Interpolation for Functional Data Classification" >}}
Functional Data, such as time series data, weather data, EEG data, handwritten data, and others, is assumed to have a smooth underlying function which can be represented using a basis expansion. Machine Learning’s traditional approach is to treat these datasets as feature vectors. In doing so, they do not leverage the fact that there is a smooth underlying function. We explore integrating this concept into machine learning algorithms starting with classification.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="November 25, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Jeremy Mandelkern" affiliation="Assistant Professor<br /> Eastern Florida State College<br /> Mathematics Department" title="Generating the Spectral Density Function for Bessel's Equation using the method of Fulton, Pearson, and Pruess" >}}
Theory and application of eigenfunction expansions for the Bessel Equation will be presented.  The Appell system and it's properties will be defined.  The spectral density function will then be computed using this system and the recent method given by Fulton, Pearson, and Preuss.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

 {{< seminarEntry date="December 2, 2014" time="4 - 5pm" loc="Evans Library 133" name="Roby Poteau" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Identification of Parameters in Mathematical Biology" >}}
We consider inverse problems for the identification of parameters for systems of nonlinear ODEs arising in mathematical biology. We implement a numerical method suggested in U.G.Abdulla, Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, 85, 3(1995), 509-526. The idea of the method is based on the combination of Bellman's quasilinearization with sensitivity analysis and Tikhonov's regularization. We apply the method to various biological models such as Lotka-Volterra system, the Pielou extension, bistable switch model in genetic regulatory networks, an angiogenesis model, a three-step pathway modelled by 8 nonlinear ordinary differential equations, etc. Numerical results confirm the quadratic convergence. Some challenges associated with the size of the system and unknown parameters, as well as the length of the time interval are discussed.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}
{{% seminarBreakdown %}}
