+++
comments = false
date = "2016-10-02T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["fa15"]
year = "2015"
semester = "Fall"
title = "Fall 2015"
description = ""
+++

{{% seminarSetup %}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 2" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Jonathan Goldfarb" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Frechet Differentiability in Optimal Control of the Free Boundary Problems for the Second Order Parabolic PDEs" >}}
We consider an optimal control of the Stefan type free boundary problem for the following general second order linear parabolic PDE:
\[ \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\Big( a\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} \Big )+b\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} +cu-\frac{\partial u}{\partial t}=f~\text{in}~\Omega = \{(x,t):~0\lt x \lt s(t),~0 \lt t \leq T\}\]
where $u(x,t)$ is the temperature function; the density of heat sources $f$, unknown free boundary $s$, and boundary heat flux are components of the control vector; and the cost functional consists of the $L_2$-declination of the trace of the temperature at the final moment, temperature at the free boundary and final position of the free boundary from available measurements.</p>

<p>This problem arises when considering a phase transition process with unknown temperature function, phase transition boundary, source term and boundary heat flux. A new variational formulation developed in <div style="text-align: center">
U. G. Abdulla, <em> Inverse Problems and Imaging</em>, 7, 2 (2013), 307--340
</div>which addresses the dual issues of possible measurement errors and large computational cost associated with classical variational formulations of ISP.</p>

<p>In this project we prove Frechet differentiability of the cost functional in Hilbert space framework. Extension of the differentiable calculus to the infinite-dimensional setting is the major mathematical challenge in this context, especially due to the fact that free boundary is the component of the control vector, and increment of the cost functional must take into account the variation of the domain of dependence. We apply the idea of decomposition of the domain, possibly into countably many subdomains depending of the sign oscillations of the free boundary increment, and carefully account for the effect of boundary integrals on the derivation of the first variation of the cost functional.</p>
<p>The notion of the adjoint problem is introduced, as an infinite dimensional analogy of the classical Lagrange multipliers in finite dimensional constrained optimization problems. With the delicate use of sharp embedding theorems in fractional Sobolev-Besov spaces the Frechet differentiability is proven, and the formula for the Frechet gradient expressed in terms of the traces of the state vector and the solution of the adjoint problem.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 9" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Adam Prinkey" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Evolution of Interfaces of the Double Degenerate Nonlinear Reaction-Diffusion Equation" >}}
We consider the problem of interface development and local behavior
of solutions near the interface in the following Cauchy problem for
the nonlinear double-degenerate parabolic PDE with reaction:
\[u_{t}=((u^{m})_{x}(\left\vert(u^{m})_{x}\right\vert^{p-1}))_{x}-bu^{\beta},~x\in\mathbb{R},~t>0;~u(x,0)=C(-x)_{+}^{\alpha}\]
The problem arises in applications such as heat radiation in plasma,
spatial spread of populations, and chemical diffusion through groundwater.</p>
<p>The structure of the PDE implies that interface behavior is determined
by the competition between diffusion and reaction. The full solution
for the reaction-diffusion equation ($p=1$) was given in 2000 [Abdulla
and King, SIAM J. Math. Anal., 32, 2(2000), 235-260] and 2002 [Abdulla,
Nonlinear Analysis, 50, 4(2002), 541-560]. Our aim is to apply the
methods of these papers to solve the open problem for double-degenerate
reaction-diffusion equations ($p>1,~mp>1$).</p>
<p>First we apply the nonlinear scaling method to identify which term dominates in various regions
of the $(\alpha,\beta)$-parameter space. We then construct super/subsolutions
and apply special comparison theorems in irregular domains to prove
explicit formulae for the interface and local solution, with precise
estimations up to constant coefficients. A WENO scheme is applied
and supports our estimates.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 16" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Naveed Iqbal" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="On the Fine Classification of Periodic Orbits of the Continuous Endomorphisms on the Real Line and Universality in Chaos" >}}
We complete the classification of the periodic orbits of period $2^n(2k+1)$, $k>1$, of the continuous endomorphisms on the real line which are minimal with respect to Sharkovski ordering. By developing the new constructive method suggested recently by Abdulla et al. it is proved that independent of $k$, there are $2^{2^{n+1}-2}$ types of digraphs (and cyclic permutations) with accuracy up to inverse digraphs. We advance outstanding open problem conjectured in JDEA paper on the structure of the second minimal odd orbits, which are defined as those that immediately follow the minimal orbits with respect to Sharkovski ordering. We pursue full analysis of the second minimal 7-orbits. It is proved that there are 9 types of second minimal 7-orbits with accuracy up to inverses.  We apply this result to the problem on the distribution of superstable periodic windows within the chaotic regime of the bifurcation diagram of the one-parameter family of logistic type unimodal maps. It is revealed that by fixing the maximum number of appearances of the periodic windows there is a universal pattern of distribution. For example, by employing the notation $n_i$ for the $ith$ appearance of the $n$-orbit, all the superstable odd orbits up to 8th appearances while increasing the parameter are distributed
according to the universal law</p>
\[\cdots\rightarrow (2k+3)_{1} \rightarrow (2k+9)_{5} \rightarrow (2k+7)_{3} \rightarrow (2k+9)_6 \rightarrow (2k+5)_{2} \rightarrow \]
\[\rightarrow (2k+9)_{7} \rightarrow (2k+7)_{4} \rightarrow (2k+9)_{8} \rightarrow (2k+1)_1 \rightarrow \cdots \]
<p>where the branches successively follow from right to left as $k=1,2,\ldots$. The same universal route is continued to the left for all 8 appearances of the $2^n(2k+1)$-orbits successfully for positive integers $n=1,2,\ldots$, and with the same order of appearance indices.  Every orbit in (1) is universal, in the sense that it has a unique cyclic permutation and digraph independent of the unimodal map. In particular, the first appearance of all the orbits is always a minimal orbit, with precisely Type 1 digraph. It is observed that the second appearance of 7-orbit is a second minimal 7-orbit with Type 1 digraph. The reason for the relevance of the Type 1 minimal orbit is the fact that the topological structure of the unimodal map with single maximum is equivalent to the structure of the Type 1 piecewise linear endomorphism. Yet another important development of this research is the revelation of the pattern of the pattern dynamics with respect to increased number of appearances. Understanding the nature and characteristics of this fascinating universal route is an outstanding open problem for future investigations.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 23" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Curtis Earl" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="State Constrained Optimal Control of the Stefan Type Free Boundary Problems" />}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Nov. 4" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Osita Onyejekwe" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Non-Parametric Kernel Regression with Application to Multi-Dimensional Data" >}}
Kernel smoothing refers to a general class of techniques for non-parametric estimation of functions. It can be useful in two classes of problems; namely, (i) density function estimation and (ii) non-parametric regression estimation. Various techniques and kernels employed to de-noise one dimensional functions will be analyzed. Two special cases of estimators studied include; the Nadaraya-Watson estimator and the local polynomial estimator. Expansion of these methods into in 2-Dimensional settings along with an overview of future works will be looked into.  Multi-dimensional kernel regression is used towards image processing and reconstruction.  Proposed methods and development of tools will be used to de-noise images to gain better understanding of its original features.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Dec. 2" time="Wed. 10-11am" loc="MAC" name="Kenneth Iwezulu" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Operational Calculus in Stochastic Games" >}}
In this talk, we shall consider an antagonistic stochastic game where two players $A$ and $B$ attack each other at some random times with strikes of random magnitude $X$ and $Y$ respectively and are observed by a third party. In particular, we consider three cases: Case 1, both players attack each other according to an ordinary Poisson process with intensities $\lambda$ and $\mu$, in case 2, one player attacks according to an ordinary Poisson process while the other attacks according to a marked Poisson process with position marks that are exponential with parameter $\nu$ and in case 3, we consider attacks according to an ordinary Poisson process but in bulk and are geometrically distributed while the other attacks according to a marked Poisson process which are exponentially distributed. In all three cases, the observation is said to be exponential.</p>

<p>Both player $A$ and $B$ have predefined threshold $M$ and $N$ respectively which is considered to be their tolerance level, At the time either player crosses its threshold, that player is said to be defeated/ruined/overpowered.</p>

<p>Our goal is to determine the first passage time i.e the time when the cumulative casualty of either player crosses its predefined threshold. To this end we shall employ the key fluctuation theorem to define such functional and use the D-operator/operational calculus to exhibit explicit results.</p>

<p>This kind of game has applications in military warfare, politics, biology (cancer treatment) amongst others.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{% seminarBreakdown %}}
