+++
comments = false
date = "2016-10-02T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["fa16"]
year = "2016"
semester = "Fall"
title = "Fall 2016"
description = ""
+++

{{< seminar >}}

<!-- Begin Fall 2016 table/tab -->
{{< seminarEntry date="Aug. 29" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Naveed H. Iqbal" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="On the Second Minimal Odd Periodic Orbits of the Continuous Endomorphisms on the Real Line" >}}
This work introduces the notion of second minimal n-periodic orbit of the continuous map on the interval according as: $n$ is a successor of the minimal period of the map in Sharkovskii ordering. We pursue classification of second minimal $2k+1$-orbits, $k\geq 3$, in terms of cyclic permutations and digraphs. It is proved that there are $4k-3$ types of second minimal odd orbits with accuracy up to inverses.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

<!-- begin seminar -->
{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 12" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Adam Prinkey" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Qualitative Properties of Solutions to Nonlinear Parabolic Partial Differential Equations with Double-Degenerate Fast Diffusion" >}}
We consider the Cauchy problem for the double degenerate parabolic partial differential equation.
\[
\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} = \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\left( \bigg\vert \frac{\partial u^m}{\partial x} \bigg\vert^{p-1} \frac{\partial u^m}{\partial x} \right) - bu^\beta,~ x \in \mathbb{R}, ~t>0; ~u(x,0) = C(-x)^\alpha_+, ~x \in \mathbb{R}
\]
where $C$, $\alpha$, $m$, and $p$ are positive constants and $b \in \mathbb{R}$. We investigate the existence of an interface for this problem and the behavior of the solution near the interface, or the behavior of the solution at infinity if there is no interface. This equation arises in a variety of situations including heat transfer in plasma, spatial spread of populations in ecology, diffusion of chemicals through ground-water, and many others. We consider the case where $0<mp<1$, which corresponds to fast diffusion; in this case, there may be no interface. When $p=1$, our equation reduces to the nonlinear reaction-diffusion equation with fast diffusion, the properties of which were fully classified in:</p>
 <p>
U. G. Abdulla. Evolution of Interfaces and Explicit Asymptotics at Infinity
for the Fast Diffusion Equation with Absorption, <i>Nonlinear Analysis: Theory, Methods
and Applications,</i>  <b>(4) 2002, 541-560</b>.
</p><p>
 From the structure of the equation, it is clear that the behavior of the interface is determined by the competition between diffusion and reaction. We found that if $\beta < mp$, the interface propagates with finite speed; in this case, we prove that the interface expands for $\alpha < \frac{1+p}{mp-\beta}$ and shrinks for $\alpha > \frac{1+p}{mp-\beta}$. In the critical case $\alpha = \frac{1+p}{mp-\beta}$, we prove that there exists a critical value $C_*$ such that if $C=C_*$, the interface will remain stationary. In all of these cases, we rigorously prove explicit bounds for the interface and for the solution $u$ up to precise constants. If $\beta \geq mp$, we prove that the interface expands with infinite speed of propagation and we derive explicit asymptotic formulas for the solution at infinity. The rigorous methods we apply include scaling, construction of super- and sub- solutions to the problem, and special comparison theorems in general domains. We confirmed our results numerically with a WENO scheme and developed test problems for special cases of our equation for a new numerical interface tracking method.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Sep. 26" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Osita Onyejekwe" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Multi-Scale Signal Denoising, Feature Extraction and Signal Reconstruction Using Non-Parametric Regression Analysis" >}}
Feature detection and signal reconstruction is an important aspect of digital signal processing. This task can be arduous and time consuming with varying results. Various feature extraction systems can be utilized to aid experts in this task. Signals are often corrupted with noise and signal denoising is needed prior to feature extraction. This presentation presents a general statistical approach using non-parametric regression analysis for smoothing and feature detection. The techniques proposed here include multi-scale kernel regression alongside matched filtering. The optimal denoising bandwidth is selected for each point prediction by maximizing the Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR) through the process of matched filtering. From thence, the kernel bandwidth is selected based upon the estimated standard error of the estimated signal within the neighborhood window.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Oct. 03" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Roby Poteau" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="TBA" >}}
We consider the inverse problem for the identification of constant for systems of nonlinear ODEs arising in mathematical biology. We implement a numerical method suggested in U.G.Abdulla, Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, 85, 3(1995), 509-526. The method combines Bellman's quasilinearization with sensitivity analysis and Tikhonov's regularization. We apply the method to various biological models such as the classical Lotka-Volterra system, models from systems biology and the Lorenz model. The numerical results show the accuracy of the method, applications to real data and confirm quadratic convergence.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}


{{< seminarEntry date="Oct. 24" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Roqia Jeli" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="On the Qualitative Theory of the Nonlinear Parabolic $p$-Laplacian Type Reaction-Diffusion Equations" >}}
On the Qualitative Theory of the Nonlinear Parabolic $p$-Laplacian Type Reaction-Diffusion Equations
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p>We present a full classification of the short-time behaviour of the interfaces and local solutions to the nonlinear parabolic $p$-Laplacian type reaction-diffusion equation of non-Newtonian elastic filtration
\[ u_t-\Big(|u_x|^{p-2}u_x\Big)_x+bu^{\beta}=0, \ p>2, \beta >0 \]
The interface may expand, shrink, or remain stationary as a result of the competition of the diffusion and reaction terms near the interface, expressed in terms of the parameters $p,\beta, sign~b$, and asymptotics of the initial function near its support. In all cases, we prove the explicit formula for the interface and the local solution with accuracy up to constant coefficients. The methods of the proof are based on nonlinear scaling laws, and a barrier technique using special comparison theorems in irregular domains with characteristic boundary curves.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}


{{< seminarEntry date="Oct. 31" time="Mon. 9-10am" loc="MAC" name="Jeremy Mandelkern" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="An Integral Equation Method to Formulate Solutions Defined Near LP/N Irregular Singular Points For 2nd Order SL Equations" >}}
In this talk, a fundamental system of solutions is obtained near the LP/N irregular singular point x = 0 for a 2nd order Sturm-Liouville equation with strongly singular potential & certain properties of these solutions are established.  The crux of our method involves factoring away lambda-independent singular behaviors of these solutions by the use of suitable changes of variables.  The remaining non-singular lambda-dependent factors are then obtained by the solution of Volterra integral equations of the 2nd kind.  Unlike the formal power series solution method which furnishes asymptotics of true solutions, our method appears to yield, by recursion, the true solutions for which these asymptotics correspond to.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

<!-- End Fall 2016 table/tab -->
{{< /seminar >}}
