+++
comments = false
date = "2016-10-02T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["fa17"]
year = "2017"
semester = "Fall"
title = "Fall 2017"
description = ""
+++

{{% seminarSetup %}}
<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">Sept. 18<br> Mon. 9-9:20am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Adam Prinkey <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Evolution of Interfaces for the Nonlinear Double Degenerate Parabolic Equation of Turbulent Filtration with Absorption
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p> We present a full classification of the short-time behavior of the interfaces and local solutions to the nonlinear double degenerate reaction-diffusion equation of turbulent filtration with strong absorption: 
	<center>$u_t=\big(|(u^{m})_x|^{p-1}(u^{m})_x\big)_x-bu^{\beta}$,</center>
with $mp > 1, \, (m, p > 0), \, 0 < \beta < 1, \, b > 0, \, x \in \mathbb{R}, \text{ and } t \geq 0$. The interface may expand, shrink or remain stationary, as a result of the competition of the diffusion and reaction terms near the interface, expressed in terms of the parameters $m, p,\beta, \text{sign} b$ and asymptotics of the initial function near its support. In all cases we prove explicit formula for the interface and local solution with accuracy up to constant coefficients. The methods of the proof are based on nonlinear scaling laws, and a barrier technique using special comparison theorems in irregular domains with characteristic boundary curves. Numerical analysis using a weighted essentially nonoscillatory (WENO) scheme is pursued and comparison of numerical and analytical results is presented. </p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">Sept. 18<br> Mon. 9:20-9:40am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Ali Haqverdiyev <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Gradient Method in Besov Spaces for the Optimal Control of Parabolic Free Boundary Problems
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p>We pursue numerical analysis of the optimal control problem introduced recently as a variational formulation of the inverse Stefan problem in [U.G.Abdulla, Inverse Problems and Imaging, 7, 2(2013), 307-340 and 10, 4(2016), 869-898]. By employing Frechet differentiability result of the recent paper by [Abdulla et.al., Evolution Equations and Control Theory, 6, 3(2017), 319-344], iterative numerical algorithm based on the projective gradient method in Besov spaces is implemented. We pursue sensitivity analysis with respect to initial guess, and comparison of alternative approaches of simultaneous reconstruction vs. nested optimization of the control vector components. Numerical results are demonstrated for model examples with various levels of complexity.</p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">Oct. 16<br> Mon. 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Ali Al-Obaidi <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Modulated Random Measures On Hausdorff Topological Spaces 
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p>In this seminar, we will introduce random measures on $\sigma$-compact Hausdorff spaces and define their stochastic integrals of functions of one and two variables. We further form a rigorous construction of a random measure perturbed by a stochastic process and target its stationary intensity often occurring in control theory. To obtain that intensity we modify and refine the classic Campbell's theorem for random measures. Examples of modulated Poisson measures are discussed.</p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">Dec. 04<br> Mon. 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Saleheh Seif <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Breast Cancer Detection via Electrical Impedance Tomography and Optimal Control Theory
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong><p>We analyze the inverse problem of breast cancer detection through Electrical Impedance Tomography. EIT is a non-invasive medical imaging method to recover electrical conductivity of the body from electrical measurements on its surface and potentials which are applied to the electrodes such that $\sum U_i=0$. Mathematical formulation of the problem is referred to as Calderon's inverse problem on the identification of the conductivity coefficient of the second order elliptic PDE from additional boundary measurements. We pursue variational formulation and consider the optimal control problem on the minimization of the $L_2$-norm declination of the flux on certain subset of the boundary for thesecond order elliptic PDE. </p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">Mar. 27<br> Mon. 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Ali Al-Obaidi <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Modulated Random Measures in Topological Spaces
<br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p>In this seminar, we will introduce random measures in different topological spaces and give some examples of them. Moreover, we will define their stochastic integrals and go over relevant integral theory, such as Campbell's theorem and its application in Laplace functional. We will discuss the most significant issue: the fact that stochastic integrals are just a random measure. Next, we will present the concept of the stochastic integral of a function of two variables, where we will see how they are related to modulated random measures. We will talk about the construction of modulated random measures using measures or stochastic processes and drive the intensity and rates intensity of the constructions.</p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->
</tbody>
	</table>
	</div>
{{% seminarBreakdown %}}
