+++
comments = false
date = "2016-10-02T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["sp18"]
year = "2018"
semester = "Spring"
title = "Spring 2018"
description = ""
+++

{{< seminar >}}

<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">March 19<br> Monday 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col">Adam Prinkey <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Evolution of Interfaces and Explicit Asymptotics at Infinity for the Fast Nonlinear Double Degenerate Parabolic Equation of Turbulent Filtration with Absorption <br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p> We consider the problem of interface development and local behavior
of solutions near the interface in the following Cauchy problem for
the nonlinear double degenerate parabolic PDE with reaction and fast diffusion:

\[
u_{t}= \big(|(u^{m})_x|^{p-1}(u^{m})_x\big)_x+bu^{\beta},~ x\in\mathbb{R},~ t>0,
\]

with a power function intial condition and $0< mp <1$, $m$, $p$, $C$, and $\alpha > 0$.
The problem arises in applications involving turbulant filtration
of material through a porous media. The interface behavior is determined
by the competition between the diffusion and the reaction terms. The
full solution for the problem for the reaction-diffusion equation ($p=1$) was given
in 2002 in:

<p>
U. G. Abdulla, Evolution of interfaces and explicit asymptotics at infinity for the fast diffusion equation with absorption, <i>Nonlinear Anal. Theory Methods Appl.</i>, <b>(4) 2002, 541-560</b>.
</p><p>

Our aim is to apply the methods of that paper to give a full classification of the interface and the local solution near the interface
for double degenerate reaction-diffusion equations with fast diffusion. Unlike in case of slow diffusion ($mp > 1$), the interface may not exist. If the interface does not exist, we seek to classify the asymptotic behavior of $u(x,t)$ at infinity.
To this end, we first apply a nonlinear scaling technique to identify which term
dominates in the various regions of the $(\alpha,\beta)$-parameter
space. We then construct super/subsolutions and apply special comparison
theorems in irregular domains to prove explicit formulae for the interface (where it exists)
and local solution near the interface, with precise estimations. </p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">March 26<br> Monday 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col"> Saleheh Seif <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> Breast Cancer Detection through Electrical Impedance Tomography and Optimal Control Theory: Theoretical and Computational Analysis <br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p>We analyze the inverse problem of breast cancer detection through Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT). Inverse EIT problem consists in recovering electrical conductivity field along with electric potential within the body and the boundary voltages for given input currents and contact impedances of the electrodes. We pursue variational formulation and consider the optimal control problem, where electrical conductivity matrix and boundary voltages are control parameters and the minimized cost functional is the quadratic declination of the boundary currents of the corresponding solution of the mixed Neumann-Robin problem for the second order elliptic PDE from given input currents. We prove existence of optimal control and Frechet dierentiability in the Banach space of bounded measurable matrix functions, and derive the optimality condition. The discretization of the optimal control problem through finite differences is implemented and the convergence of the sequence of discrete optimal control problems to continuous optimal control problem is analyzed.
We pursue numerical analysis in a simplied two-dimensional case by implementing projective gradient method in Banach spaces, re-parametrization and space reduction based on principal component analysis, Tikhonov regularization and sensitivity analysis with respect to relative size and locations of cancerous tumors.</p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

<!-- begin seminar -->
<tr>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="left_col">April 2<br> Monday 9-10am<br> MAC</div>
</td>
<td style="width: 23%;">
<div class="center_col"> Curtis Earl <br>Math Sciences Department<br> Florida Tech</div>
</td>
<td style="min-width: 50%;">
<div class="right_col"><strong>Title:</strong> On the Optimal Control of the Stefan Type Parabolic Free Boundary Problems with State Constraints <br><strong>Abstract:</strong> <p> We consider the inverse Stefan type free boundary problem for the general second order parabolic PDE under state constraints in the form of the upper bound for the temperature. This problem arises in bioengineering problem about the laser ablation of the skin. We implement optimal control framework following a variational formulation developed in

<p>
U. G. Abdulla, <i>Inverse Problems and Imaging</i>, <b>(7) 2013, 307-340 & (10) 2016, 869-898</b>,
</p><p>

with penalty functional added due to state constraint. We pursue space-time discretization and prove the convergence of the sequence of discrete optimal control problems to the continuous optimal control both with respect to functional and control. We prove the Frechet differentiability in Besov spaces and derive the formula for the Frechet differential under minimal assumptions on the data.</p>
</div>
</td>
</tr>
<!-- end seminar -->

</tbody>
    </table>
    </div>
{{< /seminar >}}
