+++
comments = false
date = "2014-04-01T15:59:13-04:00"
draft = false
showpagemeta = true
slug = ""
tags = ["sp14"]
year = "2014"
semester = "Spring"
title = "Spring 2014"
description = ""
+++

{{% seminarSetup %}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Jan. 27, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Skurla 106" name="Jonathan Goldfarb" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Introduction to Sobolev Spaces I" >}}
 The seminar will introduce notation and concepts relevant to weak differentiation and Sobolev spaces, with applications to partial differential equations of mathematical physics. <em>Source:</em> Chapter 5 in Evans, Partial Differential Equations, with some others.
 {{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Feb. 10, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 110" name="Jonathan Goldfarb" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Introduction to Sobolev Spaces II" >}}
We continue with properties of weak differentiation and basic facts of Sobolev spaces. <em>Source:</em> Chapter 5 in Evans, Partial Differential Equations, with some others.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Feb. 24, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Bruno Poggi" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Introduction to Sobolev Spaces III" >}}
We will discuss properties of Sobolev functions, and the completeness of the Sobolev space. <em>Source:</em> Chapter 5 in Evans, Partial Differential Equations.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Mar. 17, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Noha Aljaber" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Introduction to Sobolev Spaces IV" >}}
In this talk, we continue our exploration of Sobolev functions by showing that the space of smooth functions is a dense subset of the Sobolev space. <em>Source:</em> Chapter 5 in Evans, Partial Differential Equations.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Mar. 24, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Noha Aljaber" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Convolution and Mollfication" >}}
In this talk, we will look to the details of creating smooth approximations to badly behaved (integrable) functions. <em>Source:</em> Appendix C in Evans, Partial Differential Equations.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Mar. 31, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Jeremy Mandelkern" affiliation="Assistant Professor<br /> Eastern Florida State College<br /> Mathematics Department" title="A Novel Method for Frobenius Type Problems Utilizing 4x4 Matrix Multiplication Recurrence Relations" >}}
 In Balser [1, p. 18-19] a matrix formulation of the Frobenius Theory, near a regular singular point, is given resulting in a 2x2 matrix of two linearly independent solutions together with their quasi-derivatives.  In this paper we apply Balser&rsquo;s 2x2 matrix formulation to the Bessel equation,</p>
 \[ (xy')' + \left( -\frac{v^2}{x} + \lambda x\right)y=0\]
 <p>We then show that with a slight reformulation of his 2x2 matrix recurrence relation, we can generate an equivalent recurrence relation through a &ldquo;vectorization&rdquo; procedure.  This reformulated approach succeeds in overcoming the rather cumbersome coupling associated with Balser&rsquo;s 2x2 matrix recursion.  As a result of the vectorization procedure, the 2x2 matrix recurrence relation is replaced by a straightforward matrix multiplication of 4x4 matrices.
 {{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Apr. 7, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Ryan White" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Introduction to Sobolev Spaces V" >}}
In this talk, we continue our exploration of Sobolev functions by establishing how Sobolev functions can be extended to larger domains while satisfying appropriate inequalities. This extension allows results established with the domain of the whole space to be appropriately generalized to smaller domains. <em>Source:</em> Chapter 5 in Evans, Partial Differential Equations.
{{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Apr. 14, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Osita Onyejekwe" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Regression for Parametric and Nonparametric Estimation" >}}
 In this talk Linear, Polynomial, and Kernel Regression analysis will be introduced. It follows by application of regression method for parametric and nonparametric estimation through simulations. It will be concluded by addressing the important questions regarding selection of polynomial order in parametric estimation as well as selection of the bandwidth in nonparametric estimation.
 {{< /seminarEntry >}}

{{< seminarEntry date="Apr. 21, 2014" time="10 - 11am" loc="Quad 111" name="Elvira Erhardt" affiliation="Math Sciences Department<br /> Florida Tech" title="Statistical Multiple Testing for Analysis of Imaging Response in Simulated Brain Images" >}}
 In this talk different methods of multiple testing will be introduced. Voxel-wise test of significance will then be discussed by application of Bonferroni and FDR correction to imaging response in simulated brain images. It will be concluded by statistical estimation of background and standardizing the test statistics using the estimated parameters.
 {{< /seminarEntry >}}
 {{% seminarBreakdown %}}
